{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10340\viewh13900\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs53\fsmilli26667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reconstruction of Insulin Signal Flow from Phosphoproteome and Metabolome Data
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cb3 \

\f2\b \ul What is the medically relevant insight from the article? \cb1 \

\f1\b0 \ulnone In this article, they introduce a novel reconstruction method that allows the understanding of signal transduction through the study of multi-omits data by working backwards, retracing it from output to input. This computation approach focuses on a phenotypic omics, the phosphoproteome and the metabolome. The integration of both of these omics allows greater understanding of signal flow from the upstream protein phosphorylation to the downstream metabolites. This enabled them to trace the signal through specific signalling cascades. Therefore, using this method gives the opportunity to find novel drug targets that can enhance or inhibit the specific pathways. The time-dependent aspect of this method allows the capturing of dynamic fluxes that may be lost in snapshot analyses. Medically, understanding the time dependence of metabolic regulation gives better insight into effective treatment plans that could be time-dependent. \
In addition to describing the new method, the paper applies this method to investigate 
\fs29\fsmilli14600 the signalling activities induced by insulin. This study holds important potential for the improvement of insulin-dependent diseases, such as diabetes or obesity. One of the most important discoveries the importance of PFKL in the insulin-dependent glucose metabolism.
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
\

\f2\b \cb3 \ul Which genomics technology/technologies were used? 
\f1\b0 \cb1 \ulnone \
This method uses combined time-lapse phosphoproteome and the metabolome analysis.\
\

\f2\b \cb3 \ul List and explain at least three questions/ hypotheses you can think of that extend the analysis presented in the paper. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
1- I would like to apply the method to other signalling pathways. An interesting suggestion could be glucagon due to its anti-insulin effects. Comparing the pathways of both could be interesting and could be used to suggest better drug targets. \
\
2- In this paper, only acute insulin signalling was tested. I think it would be interesting to see of chronic insulin exposure functions through different pathways. \
\
3- Sometimes, through mutations, proteins may lose their function. This could especially be the case with diabetic patients. A comparison of insulin signalling in healthy vs diabetic individuals could lead to a better understanding of the disease. \
\
\
\
}